my name is Rob Alexander and welcome to
my talk on VPC design this is the fourth
year that we've been doing this talk how
many of you have seen this before been
to this one couple good thank you
appreciate you coming back there is new
stuff don't worry but we always start
with this slide and that's because this
talk is based upon practical designs we
see working out in the wild in
production workloads with our customers
we kind of distill those down every year
and find kind of the best designs we see
working where customers are doing
interesting things with VPC and that's
what this talk is all about so do try
these at home there's nothing
theoretical here I will also point out
that I do read all your feedback and the
overwhelming feedback last year was more
designs less screenshots of router
configurations so you'll notice we we
cranked down the the level from 400 to
300 that is directly due to less
screenshots of router configurations so
please give me feedback again let me
know if I got the porridge right and
will correct from next year if I if
I didn't get it quite right so it's 300
level talk but I don't spend a lot of
time talking about the basics so if you
don't know what our out table is in VPC
you don't know the difference between a
security group and nakal you don't know
what Direct Connect is don't know what
in their gateway is or why you would
want one did a few talks for you that
you might want to watch in advance so
these two will give you a firm grounding
you can listen and hopefully get back
and and catch up on the things that you
might not have caught first time around
so when I first started this talk four
years ago it was mostly about why you
would even want one of these things
customers were like what why do I want
to go into VPC what is it good for that
has to quickly changed these are more of
my conversations today's how do I build
something like this so we are going to
get to that and that's what this talk is
about it's getting from one to this. But
first you have to start with one. So, you
know, a VPC, a virtual private cloud, is
you're isolated container your own
private network within AWS where you
define all the networking that goes into
it and upon creation the one big
decision you have to make is you have to
choose what IP space to allocate to it
cider block to designate for all the
resources you're going to launch in that
VPC so that sliders fixed on VPC
creation and you can't change it after
after you designate it so the biggest is
/16 all the way down /28 and I
always recommend go big go as big as you
can if there is not a reason for you not
to go to /16. If you're worried
about wasting IP space don't I've never
had a customer come back to me and say I
wish I would have made that BBC smaller
the opposite however it happens way too
much so just a few guidelines on the IP
space design so a few recommendations
clickers not behaving so plan for
expansion you know if you're not going
into if you're only going into one
region think about other regions when
you're thinking about your space and
make sure it's still going to make sense
with other regions and play absolutely
consider future connectivity to your
corporate networks other partner
networks any kind of external
connectivity you might be in have that
in mind when you're designing your IP
space and make sure you're not
overlapping that's just asking for
headache down the road that you don't
need so the next thing after the space
after the vbc spaces you got it you got
to carve out some subnets so subnets are
available
these own specific VPC is a region-wide
construct subnets are AZ-specific make sure
you distribute your IP space equally
across all AZs. If you're in a
region that has three or more AZs, make
sure you plan for that. So even though
you might only be going day one in 2 AZs, save that equal distribution of IP
space for at least three AZs. I promise
you, in a year or two you will want that
space maybe even a few months depending
on how you go you know each AZ has its
own resource pool so for example if
you're in the spot market that's a whole
nother market over there that you're not
taking advantage of in that third AZ so
plan for it so what about subnets how
big how many should I have well not this
mini and again this is not uncommon you
know I spent many years in enterprise IT
and we used subnets as a unit of
deployment and a unit of isolation this
is very common and the tools that you
have available to you and VPC are much
richer and much more give you a lot more
functionality than a subnet so if you do
this if you do one subnet for
application and across three az's you're
going to have at least one person with
their full-time job of managing your IP
space and it's just not necessary so
these are my recommendations for VPC
subnet design the first thing is that
traditional switching limitations and
the reason that you might have done that
in your own data center don't apply here
is a virtual network there's no
performance impact for having thousands
and thousands and thousands of instances
in a single subnet there's no broadcast
domain you're not and I have any of
those limitations VPC so I always advise
consider large mixed-use subnets don't
use them as isolation containers make
sure you have a very large diverse
ability to pull from IPs and you're not
constraining one subnet because this is
the subnet for APP A and you run out I
IPs over there but you can't poo I peas
from another
not because that subnets for application
be it just it's not necessary and VPC
use security groups instead to enforce
isolation you know by default you get to
start with 500 security groups and a VPC
that's much more robust ability to
isolate things than summits and then
tags for grouping resources you know
tags can drive cost allocation cat they
can drive very fine-grained permissions
and controls through identity and access
management IAM but you can't get that
out of subnets so what do you use
subnets for you use subnets as
containers for routing policy that's
really what my primary recommendation is
think of them as containers for routing
policy and we'll talk about what that
means and if you don't know what I mean
about when I say performance and
thousands and thousands of instances in
a single subnet why that doesn't matter
with VPC please go watch this talk net
401 will give you a really good under
the hood perspective of how VPC really
works so here's a good starter home this
will this will work for eighty percent
of you for both starting and a long way
into the future have many very large and
complicated customers using a very
similar subnet design in a single VPC
and those of you that you can see here
/a to give you a thousand your public
little over a thousand and the slash
twenty will give you a little over four
thousand that just this distribution
means you have about 50,000 IP still
left over for future expansion so it's a
good start but we're actually going to
start with three subnet spray-z because
I do want to focus on that point about
routing policy so I'm going to have I
have three different routing policies
for this VPC so a subnet dedicated to
each one of those routing policies and
we'll go through what that means so I
took my advice and I'd put a /16 on
this VPC. The first routing policy well
the first is to point out that by
default all the subnets in a VPC can
talk to each other. So
it's a flat network it's a star there's
like a virtual router that is
represented in each subnet by this dot
one address which is handed out by the
VPC DHCP server and that every route
table by default will have this local
route that facilitates that routing
within the subnets that that route is
put there by default and it's you cannot
manipulate it so the first of my subnet
policies is I'm gonna have a public
subnet so anything are deploying this
public subnet is get automatically going
to get a public IP I'm going to create
an Internet gateway and I GW this is a
logical construct that allows and
facilitates the egress and ingress of
traffic into the VPC so just attaching
the idw doesn't mean that automatically
you've opened up your VPC to public
traffic it just gives the facilitation
of that what you also have to do is
provide a route to the IGW which you see
there so your default route now is
pointing to the I GW and with that and
public IPS instances in that subnet can
now egress out the Internet gateway and
out to public networks and depending
upon their security group and network
Apple configuration they can also be
reached from the outside now my routing
policy for my bottom subnet is very
different I want that bottom subnet to
only be private eye peas no public IPS
and and no routes to public networks so
it's going to be tied into my corporate
network later so I'm going to create a
virtual private gateway a VG w you see
represented there at the bottom and
that's going to be a termination point
later for things like VPN tunnels or
direct connect connections and so you
see there I have added a route for my
corporate side or block that represents
my corporate network and that is
directed towards this virtual private
gateway so everything private is now
directed there to reach those external
networks and then my third routing
product routing policy is this subnet in
the middle which is kind of a hybrid so
it's also a private subnet so everything
in there has private IPs but we
also want to facilitate those
instances and resources in the subnets
to be able to reach public networks so
how do you do that well the first
question is why would you do that why
would you want that why would you want
private resources to reach outside and
there's a lot of reasons and some of
them might not be as obvious as others
the first one is AWS API endpoints so if
you're making any API calls from
instances in the subnets whether that's
you know auto scaling calls or moving
Ian's eyes or trying to reach up AWS
public services like s3 or Kinesis
lambda SNS those are all public regional
resources that exist on the public
network so you have to be able to get
out of the VPC to go talk to those
endpoints and same with third party
services any software platforms or paths
or size of platforms that you might use
obviously exists outside your VPC so the
traditional way to do this is to deploy
an at instance so there's an ec2
instance that it's providing network
address translation so it has a public
IP in fronts those instances that our
only private IPs translates and
allows them to egress out and you
facilitate that in the routing table by
pointing your route to the actual NAT
instance itself the instance itself to
be able to get out
the problem with that is is scaling is
that you know as your traffic increases
in your requirements to get out through
this NAT instance it's a single point of
failure it has a dedicated amount of
bandwidth so it's not scaling it's a
single ec2 instance and eventually
you're going to you know burn anything
up so how do we do scalable and
available net so this is a first set of
requirements we're going to go through a
number of these requirements as we go
through our different designs so this is
the first point where public subnets for
resources are reachable from the
internet we have private subnets with
egress only access to public networks we
want scalable available NAT and for now
we're dealing with just one AWS account
one region and one bpc so back to the
net on fire you know we used to have all
these complicated ways to deploy
multiple net instances I just route
tables to go between them and facilitate
some kind of high availability with ec2
based in that instances fortunately the
late last year we launched an at gateway
which is pretty much from an object's
perspective a drop-in replacement for
them for the NAT instance you point your
routes to it the same it takes an EIP
elastic IP as a public IP address so
from you know the design perspective it
looks like an ad instance but underneath
the hood there's a lot more going on
here that makes them out gateway special
I'd like to just point out a few things
so why would you use an at Gateway over
in that instance you know most of us
know how that works private comes in
with a source IP and port than that
instance source and that's that so it
replaces that source IP with its own
public IP that's all well and good the
tricky part is that source port because
that has to be unique when you're
talking to networks out so if you have
for example lots of instances going out
and trying to get a security update
that has the same end point out there
the same destination port and IP address
your source port has to be unique has to
be unique connection for every single
one says you have more and more and more
connections going out to the same
destinations every time you're opening a
new connection on in that instance it's
having to check its table choose a new
unique source port and in a very atomic
and transactional way open that
connection and make sure that that
source port is unique you know this is
quite a similar problem with a database
but databases work in milliseconds this
needs to work in microseconds so the
traditional no scaling for an ad
instance has been to vertically scale it
keep everything in memory keep it fast
keep everything in microseconds but
horizontal scaling of NAT instances has
been very difficult and so that's where
NAT gateway comes in we applied some
very innovative engineering to address
this problem with horizontal scale for
not so NAT gateway is a fully
horizontally scale has full replication
of connection state and is highly
available so
so there we are you drop it in that
gateway and there are a few requirements
it's not like an I gwgw where it's a VPC
wide service you deploy in a gateway in
a specific availability zone highly
available and fault-tolerant for that
availability zone so you still need that
internet gateway you still need separate
subnets to be able to define the routing
policy to use that that gateway it
requires an elastic IP assigned to it so
it has a public address and it's each
each net gateway is burst of all to 10
gig of bandwidth today so it actually
appears as a lasting network interface
in your subnet when you create this net
gateway but you'll notice there's no
security group assigned to it because
you can't assign a security group two
nite gateway so how do you secure access
if you want to be very restrictive about
who can actually use the NAT gateway how
would you do that so the first thing is
network ackles they still apply so if
you're doing some coarse grain control
and the subnet access itself those were
still apply to get to the net gateway
the second thing is is what I've been
harping on is use routing policy so have
subnets like we have that are that have
a route table assigned to them that
allows them to use then at gateway
versus subnets that don't and the third
one is really the key one so use
security groups to restrict outbound so
I find most customers don't ever mess
with their outbound rules on their
security groups and by default if you
create a new security group your
outbound is open to all traffic so you
see there you know a destination for
everything port range for everything
that's a default VPC security group so
what I recommend is having dedicated so
your default changing make it only RFC
1918 space make it only the space within
your VPC you know if you're doing a lot
of other network connectivity other
networks and stuff this might look a
little different but the default here is
I put my outbound only to my VPC cider
it only. So they can only talk to stuff in
the VPC and then i create a separate NAT
enable VPC security group that then
enables them to go anywhere so that
gives the default now is much more
lockdown so you can do this you can have
one at Gateway and multiple az's using
that not gateway but as I said before
it's an it's an AZ specific deployment
so for real availability if that
something ever happened in that AZ you
would have lost all possible NAT
functionality in your VPC so we
always recommend to deploy one at
Gateway/AZ. So pros and cons of NAT gateway
so pros to drop in replacement for
netgalley I mean for NAT instances it's
very easy to migrate you just update
your right route table you can even
migrate the EIP over if you want to be
consistent the only caveat (警告/附加说明) is that
obviously you're going to lose any open
connections that are that are open at
the time that you do the cutover it's
fully managed highly available in fault
tolerant scalable it 10 gig and it
supports a VPC flow log so you can
monitor and track all of the network
traffic that's going through the gateway
on the con side there's no higher level
functions it just does not so those of
you that are pulling that instances that
are doing things like IPS or UTM or any
kind of URL filtering or packet
inspection you know more the high-level
security functions that's not the neck
that gateway so you know we have lots of
partners that offer those features and
their NAT instances along with providing
that so whether that's you know our
sophos or fortinet or we have all a
whole range of partners are provide
security appliances that do these high
level functions and as I mentioned you
can't associate security group so here
we are we got our one VPC and now we're
moving on to our next one where we have
an internal only corporate IT app that
we want to connect to our internal
corporate network
over IPSec tunnels so what are the
considerations when we're talking about
multiple VPCs when you start moving
into one, two, three, ten, a hundred, VPCs what
should be thinking about and why would
you want to do that and why not one big
VPC and my first question back to you
whenever I'm asked that from a customer
is well why not 1 AWS account because
those two go hand-in-hand as soon as you
have more than one account you have more
than one VPC so there are a few things
that go with both having multiple
accounts and multiple and multiple pcs
and the first one is blast radius so if
you have one VPC and you have thousands
of developers somebody's going to step
on each other's toes you know I am
allows you to give very fine-grained
resource control over who can do what in
your VPC but you cannot IAM API limits
right so if for example you have one
misbehaving app that Browns out your
throttle limits on ec2 describe calls
that affects everyone else so there is a
certain level of blast radius that you
must consider when you're putting
resources in a VPC
here's another very good reason to have
both multiple accounts and multiple of
epcs probably the best reason out there
if you're not doing that come talk to me
same with this one you know regulatory
and compliance reasons keep them a
separate account separate resources this
is also another very common one so with
disaster recovery separate region and
separate account so you have all of your
data replicated to a different a
different region for disaster recovery
and in case there's some kind of
compromise in your account in your
production that compromise cannot affect
your disaster recovery because it's all
in a separate account separate VPC
completely isolated and then we do some
things a little fancier to illustrate
you know where we go with more VPCs
more accounts so here we have a you know
an account in a VPC / business unit and
we're sending all the application logs
S3 access logs, ELB logs out of these
accounts and these VPCs from these
business units you know they're able to
manage their own bottom line have cost
visibility and get their own bill
because they have their own account but
we're sending all of their you know
digital exhaust to a separate account
you know things like a degras config
also to track all the changes within
their VPCs so if somebody changes a
security group it changes internet
gateway authors a route table you're
going to know about it cloud trail to
monitor all of their API calls is the
audit log of all their API calls and
then VPC flow logs again so you know all
the traffic that's going in and out of
their VPCs all this stuff is going to
another account and another VPC
dedicated to logging to auditing and
analysis of this data so we might have
an EMR and they're doing you know
MapReduce jobs to reduce this data I
have Amazon redshift doing you know data
warehousing of this data for
querying analytics and then of course s3
has as the storage bracket so now we've gone
through some of the reasons why that you
would consider multiple view pcs let's
let's dive back into our private app so
this is the one we showed before where
we have only a private connection to
corporate network over an ipsec tunnel
but the application in there wants to
make heavy use of s3 is a primary data
store so how do we facilitate in a
private only VPC access to a public
resource like s3 so our next round of
design requirements so VPN connectivity
to private only VPC no egress in the VPC
to public networks so no public IPs
whatsoever private IP accessed it amazon
S3 very content specific egress control
access control so we control exactly
what goes out of the VPC, be able to
filter it and one AWS account one VPC
one region still. So by default if you
didn't do anything else this is the
route that you would take to facilitate
that connectivity you know you have to
go down in your data center all the way
out your data centers public board or
back around to the region and that's
obviously it's not an ideal way to go
fortunately we have VPC endpoints which
are there we go to meet exactly this
requirement to provide private IP
connectivity to AWS services in this
case S3 so VPC endpoints there's no
internet gateway required there's no NAT
you're not using public IPs it's free
and you have very robust access control
and its private IP connectivity to s3 so
here's an example of creating S3
endpoint and assigning it to a subnet so
this is the CLI you'll notice you
actually tell it what route table you
want so there we are and it creates the
route for you so you see the destination
is a
prefix list and the target is the
endpoint itself and we'll talk a little
bit in a minute about what a prefix list
is and to give an example here's here's
a subnet that does have an Internet
gateway what would happen if you created
and assigned a VPC and point to this one
here you have your default realities
near gateway but you're still using the
prefix list for s3 for the service to
access s3 that's obviously a more
specific route for s3 so that's going to
be used over the Internet gateway for S3
in that region if you access S3 in
another region that endpoint is only for
this region in this case us west too so
you would use the internet gateway to go
to another region to access S3 and what
if you had a NAT gateway so if you
already had a default route out of the
NAT gateway it's actually really
important that you that you also add the
VPC endpoint to that private subnet
because otherwise you're funneling all
of your S3 traffic through the neck
gateway and if you know that that
gateway it's charged on and you know the
data transfer rates through that gateway
so the vbc endpoint is not its private
IP so it's a it's a cost decision there
too to add a VPC endpoint two subnets
that are using nat to get out of the out
of the out of the VPC so prefix lists
are an abstraction so they basically
represent the entire public IP space of
s3 in the region and so all you need to
do is reference the prefix list and it
will figure out what the actual back-end
I peas and this solved you know a lot of
headaches that customers have before and
trying to keep track of what actually
consisted of S3 IP space so
obviously those this range is changed
all the time in the back end but all you
have to do is reference the prefix list
and you can use them in your outbound
security group rules so similarly to how
I advised within that gateway you can do
the same thing to restrict access to the
VPC endpoint so you can say only certain
instances in the subnet even though the
subnet itself has a route to the VPC
endpoint you can apply a security group
to instance
is to restrict them outbound to be able
to use the VPC endpoint by referencing
the prefix list and here's the fine
grain access control i mentioned so
there's multiple stages you can be able
to apply policies to control egress out
of your VPC so the first one is I can
apply an IM policy to the VPC endpoint
itself that says it can be as detailed
as users and groups amount of content
specific objects in this case I've gone
pretty generic which is a specific
bucket so you can only use this VPC
endpoint to go out to specific bucket so
I applied it to the end point and it's
only forget input and so instances that
have that are in that about they have
the route to the VPC in point are
allowed to get out if they are going to
that bucket so that's on the endpoint
itself but I can also apply a policy on
the bucket so you have it on both ends
now the bucket can say only specific VPC
endpoints or only specific v pcs can
talk to me so here we check and make
sure that it's coming from a very
specific VPC endpoint and if it is then
you're allowed access to the bucket so
multiple stages of access control so
just to recap real quick so you have the
route table that gives the subnet the
resources in the subnet itself again
subnet defines routing policy gives
access to the VPC endpoint the second is
that policy on the endpoint itself that
says what you get what can go out of
this VPC through this endpoint to access
what resources and S3. The third thing is
the bucket policy itself which says who
can access this. And then the fourth is
the security groups. So multiple stages.
So we'll just give a little in points in
action here so we create a backups
bucket for all these Internet APPs so
that they can push those up to S3 but we
have a compliance application which has
more fine-grained requirements around
what can go out and so we create a
separate endpoint for them so you can
create multiple endpoints and have
different policies on these end points
on it on a VPC. The restriction is that
you can only have in a route table one
route to S3 so that prefix like so you
can have multiple ones so for example if
I wanted to add more buckets I wouldn't
be creating new endpoints for these
subnets because they already have a
route to an end point so instead i would
have to alter the policy itself to allow
access to these additional buckets so
pros and cons of the endpoints so secure
highly scalable highly available access
to s3 you don't have to worry about
scaling it or bandwidth fine-grain
control of access to the content S3 from
the VPC can control which VPCs which
endpoints can access which buckets and
there's no public IPs that required and
so all source IP is accessing s3 or kept
your private IPs from your VPC. Negatives
so cons if you
do restrict an S3 bucket to a specific VPC or or specifically VPC endpoint you
can't use the S3 console anymore to
manage S3 I hope that's obvious why but
the console doesn't run your VPC so as
soon as you put that policy out there
you will go in today to this management
console and you'll get a nice big error
and you need to enable dns that doesn't
mean you can't use your own dns if you
do you just need to forward it on to the
Amazon EC2 VPC DNS because we got to
resolve those prefix lists
alright so we got two down what's next
so this is the part where this usually
happens you know the it the easy
deployment methodology of VPCs the
ability to spin them up very fast new
projects do tests and then actually
deploy applications and connect them
back into your corporate networks you're
going to have a lot of VPCs very fast
and and while that dynamic nature of the
VPCs is a great feature you know adding
IPSec tunnels bringing in new networks
propagating those into your corporate
network making change control in your
network border these are impactful
changes and when they're coming rapid
fire like this your network engineers
are not going to be happy with you so
let's to emphasize you know just the
what's involved in just one of these VPN
connections let's zoom in on one of
these and see what is a real HA VPN to
VPC connectivity looks like so every time
you create a VPN connection to a VPC
it's two tunnels so that's the
redundancy on our end so one tunnel will
debt will land in separate availability
zones and that will connect down to one
of your customer gateways so this is
your VPN device terminating the tunnels
and your end now to provide HA on
your end you're going to want to
customer gateways come on so that you
can have redundancy on your end. So now
we've got four tunnels so four tunnels
are involved in each connection
and then BGP please don't do static
routes always dynamic always BGP and
this is the arrangement when you when
you connect to us we advertise down our ASN
and the cider block that comprises the
VPC itself you advertise up your network
so your internal corporate network what
also comes down from us work our MEDs so
multi-exit-discriminators so this is a
way for BGP do for us to influence the
routes that come down to you so we use
those in our VPN as a service that backs
the VGW to tell you which tunnel we're
going to prefer so you need to make sure
an honor those when they come down and
you can do the same to us so if you want
us to prefer if you want your traffic to
prefer one CGW over the other you can do
the same you can send up to us either
MEDs or you can send up AS path through
pending to favor one side or the other
and then obviously you would react eyes
the VP seasiders that you're learning
from the VPC into your internal network
through whatever igp protocol you might
be using on your corporate network all
right
so starting to stress out your network
pipes are starting to really stress out
your network operations team and all
these things are accessing common shared
services that exists on your corporate
network so whether that's DNS or
directory services logging monitoring
security common data sources all that's
coming down so our next set of
requirements is to fix this situation so
how do we centralize network
connectivity so we're not being so
impactful to our network teams
centralize the management security and
the common service access give account
owners some kind of control and freedom
over their own VPC resources but still
have centralized security control over
that access and now we're moving into
many AWS accounts many VPCs
still one region so this model is the
hub and spoke with peering so we are
going to facilitate this by moving those
common shared services up into a hub VPC
so this shared services VPC that you see
here and then all of the spoke VPCs
will be peered through VPC peering so
this is a one-to-one relationship
between a spoke and the hub that
facilitates private connectivity between
VPCs and you'll notice the shared
services VPC is the only one that has a
consolidated connection down to your
corporate network and it's also the only
one that has any egress to the public
network so the IGW and the VPC endpoint
they're all only in the shared services
VPCs the spokes are completely
isolated. So let's assume in on the Shared
Services Hub and one of the spokes to
see how it works so here we see the
establishment of the peering connection
itself so this is a API call where both
sides have to agree so you send it to
each other and you're both thumbs up
that facilitates the creation of
appearing connections that doesn't mean
everything can start talking to each
other all of a sudden what it does mean
is you can now start creating routing
rules that reference the peering
connection so you'll see here I create a
private route table on the spoke that
says I want to reference the shared
services subnet through the peering
connection you can be as specific as you
want you don't have to say the entire
VPC to the route so you can take this
down to a / 32 and that means that you
spoke would only be able to talk to a
single host in that over that peering
connection but on the other end we give
the shared services VPC access to the
entire VPC space of the spoke so now
these two can actually route between
each other all private IP connectivity
between the two VPCs but what about if
I want to reach down from the spoke into
my corporate network I can add a route
for that so I've done that here to
reference the peering connection because
that's the direction of my corporate
network but when I actually try to do
that the hubby VPC is going to see
traffic trying to egress that's not part
of its network and it's going to drop it
and that's that's by design so you can't
have a transitive relationship with VPC
peering so I can't be paired with
something and then reach other things
that that VPC is connected to whether
that's external networks or other spoke
VPCs or the VGW or IGW or the VPC
endpoint all of those are transitive
relationships all I can do with
appearing connection is talk to the
actual cider space in that VPC that I'm
appeared with but what if we do want to
facilitate that kind of connectivity
what are our options there
so probably the most common initial is
to deploy a centralized proxy so a lot
of customers there oh they already have
centralized proxies for a lot of their
outbound access and they'll deploy a
centralized proxy layer up into their
shared services VPC and we'll provide
you know HTTPS connectivity to
facilitate this in the end kind of
communication so how would that work so
here we have internally I'll be deployed
into the shared services VPC back by
proxy fleet and this is this is not a
transparent proxy so this is not in line
this would be explicit proxy so you
would have to actually configure your
endpoints your instances or devices to
use the proxy for HTTP communication so
here you see you're going across the
peer in connection to the ELB and
hitting a resource in that VPC that it
can now use the VGW and down to your
corporate network and similarly to use
egress out of the Internet and then this
proxy can be a centralized source of URL
filtering and determining what content
can and can not go out so it's a
centralized resource for all HTTPS
traffic and you see here the proxy is
the only one that has all the routes to
all these resources so let's zoom in and
see like with this how this is actually
configured and you'll see here that I'm
I'm building up layers but keep in mind
that star network so by default
everything is flat everything can talk
to each other so all these layers that
I'm representing are determined on
security groups routing policy and
network ackles to actually form these
layers so first we've got an internal
elb so it's all private eye peas and
that's the destination for my proxy
backing it R is the actual instances
that are performing the proxy functions
so these can be you know whether it's
open source squid or a third party
vendor that you're using to do your
proxying does it behind the ELB and they
are the only ones that have public IPs
and they are the only ones that have a
route to the Internet gateway
and so the private subnet in the spoke
VPCs you can actually use security groups
across peers now so that actually wasn't
possible until this year is to share
security groups across across a peer
relationship so the ELB itself could
have a security group of spoke to say
these spoke resources can use me and are
able to access the ELB and similarly for
accessing public resources go same for
using the VPC endpoint and finally
administrator it's so operations staff
back on your corporate network they're
going to have to land on something and
that shared services VPC so something
like a baston host administrative hose
that they land on that the date they can
then jump on to spokes or any peered
relationship but they can also use the
proxy so if you want to facilitate for
example S3 connectivity private S3
connectivity through your VPCs
through the shared services VPC you can
certainly do that and so those devices
can be configured to use the proxy and
your shared services and out they go so
a few to do's on the Shared Services Hub
make sure you're using I am to control
you know talked about these teams owning
their own VPC having their own account
but you got to make sure that they can't
alter the design that you've put in
place so you got to make sure they can't
tear it on the pairing relationship or
put IGW on their VPC so all of the high
blast radius network specific API calls
you need make sure you're locking this
down so create NetOps roles and
make sure you apply these roles to every
one of your accounts so that your
network operations teams are the only
ones that can jump in there assume that
role and make network-related VPC
changes there's a link there for we now
have managed
roles so there's one for network
administrator's which means it's a
managed policy which means AWS is
responsible for keeping it updated so as
we release new network related features
and products that policy will
automatically be updated so take a look
at that we've talked about CloudTrail
config and VPC flow logs make sure
you're making use of those to track
everything that's going on and all your
VPCs. so quick pro-con on this one so
we're minimizing on-premises network
changes by you know consolidating down
to a fixed number of pipes up into the
region we've reduced a latency and the
cost of cloud applications because we've
moved those shared services up there no
longer having to come down to your
corporate network to access them all
we've provided spoke accounts control
over their own resources but we have
centralized control of everything that's
coming out of them with the proxy and
the security groups are working across
all the peers so that we're securing the
traffic. on the con side for the hub and
spoke obviously you're managing the cost
and the management of the actual proxy
so all those instances that comprise the
actual proxy are your responsibility I
mentioned it's not a transparent proxy
so you're having to do the configuration
to point everything to that proxy to use
it for HTTPS it's restricted to L7 to
HTTPS and we point out the no transitive
networking and the peering data transfer
cross so there is a cost to use peering
once in a gig and so if you're doing
very significant data transfers between
peered VPCs you want to pay attention
to that traffic and figure out whether
the peering makes sense for you
alright so here we got multiple hubs you
know you have maybe a dev hub and maybe
have a prod hub but it's not limited to
just that you might have a data services
hub that might be tied in but they can
be connected to each other and appearing
is very flexible and can also be dynamic
so it's something that I don't think is
quite apparent at first blush with
peering but you're going to have you
know it's just an API call to establish
connectivity between two VPCs so you
might have a deployment use case where
you have a promotion of data from one
environment to another and traditionally
these environments wouldn't be connected
but programmatically you could just
issue a VPC here in connection connect
them up transfer the data tear down the
connection but now we've got we've got
your next hot mobile app and one of
these spokes so we're going to zoom in
on this one spoke and the hub so we have
this mobile mobile app and this is what
I'm calling an hybrid service which I'm
trademarking and this is I'm seeing this
more and more where you have a private
VPC the resources in there to have no
IGW at all private but you're using
public AWS resources to provide a front
into the resources in the VPC so for
example Amazon API gateway is providing
a landing point for your mobile AP is
and it's providing strong authentication
and it's providing metering and it also
provides access to Lambda functions
Lambda can reach inside your VPC so
Lambda can privately access your VPC it
does that by creating an elastic network
interface that the function then uses to
access you know the interface itself as
a private IP from your VPC and it uses
that to access resources in your VPC
privately so there's no public access
here so here we're accessing you know we
have a backing store of Amazon Aurora
deployed into this VPC for the mobile
APP to use and that works great
but what doesn't work is the new
functionality that we want to launch
which depends upon legacy applications
that are still back in your data center
back home so this is very common where
customers are you know advancing the
their mobile application at a certain
pace releasing new features but they
have dependency on the legacy
applications they can do this build
these things up in the cloud and still
be able to reach back to legacy apps and
make use of the data that's still in
your corporate network how do you do
this you know we've already talked about
transitive not working so here we go
we've got all these spokes now that have
requirements to have end-to-end layer-3 connectivity so no longer just
proxy high level layer-7 we won't
end to end connectivity and we've also
got some other regions out there that
are growing we'd like to bring them into
the fold so now we move on to VBC mass
transit and here's our requirements now
so now we want to again we're
centralizing and minimizing the network
connections but now we want to allow
into end routing no minimal operational
overhead and we want to leverage the AWS
network with many AWS accounts many
of you VPCs and many regions so this is
where we bring in a concept of a transit
VPC now a transit VPC is dedicated to
just that facilitating connectivity to
between networks so we keep it as simple
as possible all that's going in here are
dedicated ec2 based routing devices that
are going to be responsible for
maintaining VPN tunnels to a lot of
different networks and facilitating the
communication between all of them
there's no other resources in the
transit VPC we keep it simple just has a
default route to it to an IGW and no
other resources in the VPC that are
depending upon pointing to these things
and then we start adding spokes to them
and the spokes are dead simple they're
just point
default route out to their VGW it's
kind of turning the model on your head
because you know these EC2 basic VPN
devices are basically asked acting as
customer gateways but in this model it's
the reverse they're not really the
client they're the hub so as we add more
and more spokes this is again all bgp
all dynamic routing we're learning all
these networks and these centralized
transit routers are facilitating into
and connectivity between all spokes and
we can do the same for bringing in
external networks we just land the VPN
tunnels and connect them directly to
these transit routers and it's you know
as I mentioned in the proxy these are
now centralized methods for traffic
control for security and filtering
so if this sounds like something you're
actually interested in the solution
builder team at AWS has actually built a
solution for transit VPC and we're going
to talk a little bit about how that
works so there's a CloudFormation
template that sets all of this up for
you it's based off the cisco cloud
services router so the csr which is a
full stack virtualized ASR so there's
all the features of your of your
hardware ASR but with a BYOL
pay-as-you-go licensable and the
CloudFormation stack for transit VPC launched
it and in the template all you have to
do is choose what bandwidth you want so
at the low end is to with 500 megabytes
megabits excuse me / router all the way
up to 4.5 gigabits per second per router
so it creates that transit VPC for you
deploys in with the IPs assigns carrier
network space to it so this is not RFC
1918 space it's shared access space and
then it has a very cool automation to be
able to actually start creating your
transit connections so spoke connections
see very simple all we have is IGW are
out and it uses S3 for storing
configuration so we have a route to a
VPC endpoint and how do we do
availability for these things so I'm
sure you're wondering like this you have
centralized routers are now responsible
for all this communication between all
these spokes we use easy to auto
recovery so if you're not familiar with
this feature this is all driven by a
status check alarm called status check
failed system so this is a cloud watch
metric that is a summation of a bunch of
ec2 related health checks that are
rolled up into this one single metric
that say what the hell of the underlying
host its power its networking as
software everything about that that
physical host hosting your instance and
what you can do
is set when the alarm is triggered on
that metric if it fails you can trigger
to recover the instance which means it
will be migrated to new hardware
automatically and it will retain all the
characteristics of that instance from
private IPs to the ENIs that are on
there to the EBS volumes are mounted all
the way to the instance ID itself so it
is identical and this is supported on
all the instance types you see there
with EBS only it's dependent upon EBS
storage to facilitate the migration so
how do you add a spoke so this is all
driven by tagging so you go to the VGW
of the spoke you add this tag that says
transit VPC spoke equals true there's a
lambda function out there that's running
every minute that cycles through all of
your accounts and all your regions to
check for this tag on a VPC that does
not have VPN connections already so it
finds that tag it builds the necessary
VPN connections so it creates your CDW's
if it needs to the customer gateways
creates the VPN connection it bundles
that out up into XML file and encrypts
that and stores that on s3 which
triggers another lambda function by
putting that object onto s three
launches a cisco configuration takes
that configuration puts it into
something Cisco friendly and then
actually uses the same private access it
lambda access so it creates an ENI has
permissions to ssh and deer transit
routers and pushes that configuration
into the CSRs automatically so within a
matter of minutes this networks are
connected the tunnels come up BGP shared
everybody's happy and you can also use a
there's some knobs and dials in there to
be able to do route influencing so if
you want to preferred route between your
between your CSRs you can do that too so
by default they're active active which
is fine if you're stateless but if
you're doing something like it pcs ours
are
so going to do that or if they're going
to do stateful file walling or anything
that needs to maintain state and not
have a symmetric routing then you'll
want to look into this feature so this
again just representing all the tunnels
here is driven by a tag that you put on
the VG w so you put a tag that says
preferred path equals CSR one or CSR to
now will again drive a configuration
change to prefer one or the other
and I promise this is my only router
configuration screen shot I just wanted
to show you that this is what it does it
just automatically adds a path
prepending in there to influence that
route so this was from the CSR to which
is the one you didn't want to prefer so
it it doubles up on the buffer so that
is going to be obviously less preferred
it applies that route map to that
neighbor it's finally dying and the same
is for removing spoke so all you have to
do is change that tag either false or
blank it out or whatever that polar is
going to be running every minute and
checking the state of that tag and it
will tear down that connection push the
new configuration that has removed those
connections cisco configurator lambda
function will launch and it will
reconfigure your routers for you
automatically so it's fun stuff it's
aight i encourage you to check it out
it's fun to play with it's really easy
to launch the template and get running
and start figuring out if it if it's
going to work for your ulti VPC
configuration alright so here we go we
got it looks very similar to Dobbin
spoke but now it's all l3 so this is all
driven by tunneling IPSec tunnels
into these centralized routers and and
BGP driving all the dynamic routing
between all of the various networks so
you can go everywhere you can go from
your branch to a spoke you can go from a
spoke to another spoke you're going to
go spoke to your to the internet so full
into end
so now we're starting to get there so
we're bringing in that second region
also into our transit we representing
here that you can run a transit hub in
each region or you can move other
regions over and have spokes you know
it's completely up to you how you want
to run the transit VPC you know where
you want your point of consolidation to
be and I just point out here that we're
also running in a full mesh between
transit hubs to different regions over
the AWS network so real quick pros and
cons of the transit VPC so Indian
routing central transit routers can
perform higher level functions there's
central point of control for you the
spoke VGWs are dead simple and they're
HA by default this minimizes on-premise
networking changes because you're not
changing anything about your
connectivity to the transit VPC all the
really dynamic stuff you're you're
launching all these new VPCs that's all
happening in the transit VPC itself and
it can minimize cost if you're already
doing this and you can offload this
function from you know purchasing new
networking gear or something for a colo
instead you can move this up into a
transit VPC on the on the con side we
see availability and management of the
transit router is up to you we talked a
little bit about the availability the
licensing costs of Cisco and the cost of
the data transfer is important to point
out because everything transit related
is going over the IGW so it's all
Internet out so for example if you're
going from transit to spoke or spoke to
transit to home each one of those is an
Internet out step so you need to pay
attention to your data transfer costs
so if everyone's okay I'm running low on
time I didn't I didn't realize how this
was going to go I've got one more
section take about five minutes but i'll
try to blow through it so this is just
bringing in direct connect to this
picture and more regions so we want to
use an existing private network that we
have so we have an MPLS network we don't
want to use the Internet anymore to
connect our regions but take advantage
of free existing network and we want to
bring in more regions so dedicated
scalable network connectivity database
leverage our existing corporate network
predictable latency in many many many
many regions midget many accounts many VPCS
so transit VPC with direct connect
this works perfectly fine and there's
actually you know cool little feature
here with what we're calling it a
detached VGW and for those of you that
are the VPC hackers in the crowd you
will noodle on this one tonight figure
out what else you can do to play with
this one so this is a cool one you can
use a VGW without actually being
attached to a VPC I don't know if you
ever try that but you can so if I tag
this thing with the transit tag the
transit router is going to build up
tunnels to this VGW now right now it's
one sided there's nothing else attached
to the VGW but you can attach a private
direct connect interface to it so now on
one side you've got the private virtual
interface for direct connect attach this
VGW another side you have your VPN
tunnels into your CS hours so all the
BGP propagation is going to happen and
facilitate through this like
free-floating life raft of network
connectivity is not attached to VPC so
this scales up to about a gigabit of
flow so if you're doing multiple
gigabits you can create more of these
but if you're doing you know like tens
and 20s 30 40 gigabits of traffic of a
direct connect you don't want to do this
you want to go a more traditional route
which is setting up the private direct connect
directly into the VGW attached to the
transit VPC and then running tunnels
over direct connect so you can do this
privately like this so here we're
representing the tunnels from your
on-premise VPN devices directly into the
CSR transit routers or you can also do
it over public it's up to you there's
pluses and minuses on both so with
public you're obviously it's a public
network now and you're getting all of
AWS public IP space advertised down to
you and you also have to secure that on
your side you have to treat it like a
public network so you'll have firewalls
in such there we go non security layers
on your side because it is a public
network but you can still facilitate the
tunnels across the direct connect
connection its private dedicated
bandwidth and you'll just be terminating
those total tunnels on the public EIPs
of the transit routers instead of of the
private IPs the advantage of the
public is that once in the US once you
connect in in one direct connect a
location with a public direct connect
interface you get access to all the AWS
regions so if you were running transit
hubs in multiple regions through this
single connection and here we
represented in the Equinix (数据运营商) in
chicago to the new US east region is where you're directly direct connected into so you
obviously have access to your regions
all your V pcs in that region but you
would also have access to the remote
regions of just click whatever work so
you'd be able to VPN and it would still
be all over AWS private network you
would not be able to do that with a
private Direct Connect fifth private
Direct Connect interfaces can only be
connected to VPCs in the same region
that your direct connected into I'll
skip this is going to be homework work
for you later there's a really good deep
dive if you want to go to all the
details of direct connect em VPNs net
for two and just real quickly I mean
hooking up at existing MPLS like IP VPN
network to a region is is dead simple
most of your providers they're already
in our direct connect locations that
AWS region is already appointed
presence on their global cloud so all it
is is facilitating adding that new pop
to your existing IP VPN you know calling
up your provider and saying hey I want
to add us to I want to add to the
network because you know your facility
they're facilitating all the routing
you're having that relationship with
their PE routers in each of your
locations and they just bring in that
new network on to your VRF representing
your cloud and now you've got all of the
decider blocks from the a depressed
region so same with bringing in multiple
locations here we have Chicago and
london the only thing to watch out for
is as your MPLS cloud gets to a certain
size there are some limits so there is a
100 route max in the VPC route table so
if you have many many points of presence
on your MPLS cloud you're going to need
to get your provider to either summarize
those down to nice and clean smaller
outs or advertise a default route to you
because 100 is a hard limit for us in
the VPC route table and then you're
obviously going to be seeing our AS in
coming in from different locations so
you have to do things like
BGP AS-override to make sure there's not any
BGP loops when you're bringing in
multiple regions all right so pros of
using Direct Connect with trans a VPC
private network no internet dependencies
predictable Layton sees because you have
that dedicated bandwidth is dedicated
links into the regions and access to
public networks of all US regions over a
single us-based direct connection
connection on the negative you know
you're getting all of our public IP
space you might not want all that so you
might be having to do some filtering on
what you get from us as far as public
network announcements and then 100 route
limit we just talked about and obviously
the cost of a provider network and of
all these direct connect connections
alright so we finally got to the picture
thank you very much for your time so I
ran a little bit over
I really appreciate please give me
feedback thank you